How's the Italian food in this restaurant?
Good. Try the veal.
- It's the best in the city.
- I'll have it.
Capide?
[Understand?]
I'm gonna speak Italian to Mike.
Go ahead.
The following translations were posted by two Italian YouTubers correcting
a botched translation attempt of this scene: https://youtu.be/AKBcRU5tPco
Mi dispiace—
[I'm sorry about—]
U Sai.
[Forget it.]
Tu ai sapiri ca chiddu che e' successo tra mi e tu' padri fu una cosa di "bizunis".
[You know what happened between me and your father was just business?]
Eu aiu un grosso rispettu pi tu' padri
[I have great respect for your father]
ma tu' padri pensa a l'antica e tu nun.
but his way of thinking is old-fashioned.
Lo vo' capiri che eu sono un uomo di onore.
[You have to understand that I am a man of honor.]
Di sti' cosi, li sacciu.
[Don't tell me these things. I know.]
Lo sai?
[You know?]
E tu ai sapiri che eu ho auitato la famiglia Tataglia.
[And you understand that I have helped the Tattaglia family.]
Io credu che ci potemu mettere in accordo.
[I think we can come to an agreement.]
Io voglio pace
[I want peace]
e lasciamo perdere cu tutti sti cazzati.
[and we can drop all this crap.]
Ma vogghiu ca...
[But I want...]
Che?
[What?]
Come se dice...?
[How do you say...?]
What I want...
...what's most important to me...
...is that I have a guarantee: no more attempts on my father's life.
What guarantees could I give you? I am the hunted one.
I missed my chance. You think too much of me, kid.
I'm not that clever.
All I want is a truce.
I have to go to the bathroom. Is that all right?
You gotta go, you gotta go.
I frisked him. He's clean.
Don't take too long.
I've frisked a thousand young punks.
After Michael returns from the bathroom with a concealed firearm
Ti senti megghiu?
[You feel better?]
Micheluzzo, tu mi capisci, no?
[Little Michael, you understand me, don't you?]
Si' Italiano come tu' padri.
[You're Italian like your father.]
Tu' padri sta mali.
[Your father is sick.]
Quando iddru sta megghiu
[When he gets better]
NOTE (The word after "megghiu" was too unclear for the Sicilian translator to make out)
di fari un riunioni
[we arrange a meeting]
e mettiamo tutto apposto.
[and put everything in place.]
NOTE (Again, a few Sicilian words here were unintelligible.)
Si deve finiri.
[This foolishness must end.]